If we hit play here and I'm going to go ahead and zoom in to the timeline, the question is not how
to get them ready to do it.
And the question isn't even how do we go?
OK, so a lot of stuff is going on just in this first two seconds.
So let's kind of deconstruct this.
So what we have and I'm going to go ahead and scoot this, we have more to work with over here.
Now we have the exact type of audio filters that we added to our previous edits.
So we have the hard limiter that's boosting the sound of the dialogue, making it very clear, which
is incredibly important for all videos, but especially a video where you have a teacher on camera teaching
things.
So we have the hard limit.
It's boosting it's creating a ceiling so that the audio doesn't go too loud.
But it's bringing up all the all the pieces already.
Kind of explain that.
So you understand it.
Then we have the mastering filter.
This is brightening up our audio by boosting the high is boosting everything in the high frequency.
And then we also have the parametric equalizer where we're selectively what frequencies we're cutting
out like here.
We're cutting out all the low end.
Just like I mentioned earlier in the course, we don't want a whole lot of lowan in the voice because
it's going to clash with our music in the background.
If there's bass in the music and bass in the voice, you can that can create the kind of bad rumble
in your speakers, especially with older speakers.
So that is the overall that we did to really clean up our audio here.
So if I take these off.
The question is not the question is not versus putting them back on.
Question is not.
A question is not right.
So it sounds like she's underwater without with.
We boosted it up if you want to learn more about that.
We did it in a previous lecture.
Now we have this cool kind of visual transition that sound a transition, but a quick cutaway shot to
break up her speaking.
The question is not how to get back.
So let's keep focusing on our audio for this.
Let's see what we have.
And so we have this sound.
Which is a book opening sound.
So that's one layer of audio.
We have our music that comes in.
OK.
And then we have our swoosh.
And altogether, it's not how to get better.
Those all work in harmony.
If we were to take one out, I'm going to take out the sound effect from the book.
OK, it's OK.
Now I'm going to take out the swoosh.
Question is not how to get better.
Not nearly as much impact there, right?
So like this?
No swoosh, no sound effect.
We just go straight into the music, which would totally be acceptable for most edits.
But what we're really focusing is those advanced final techniques.
That really creates a really cool moment in your edit.
So just going in from the vocals to the music, which is what most people would do.
The question is not how to get.
And if we unmuted these tracks so that we bring back our sound effect and we bring back that really
important swoosh.
Gene is not how to get better.
Perfect.
So what that does is the audio cue gives you a visual feeling that something is going to change with
what you're looking at.
And it leads in to the sound effect.
And it helps the soundtrack overall by really just creating more of a cohesive moment, even though
it's look to.
It's one second.
One point.
One seconds, or I'm looking right here.
So it's one second and 16 milliseconds.
And then it's, you know, OK, this is about one second of a thing.
And this little addition into the audio really just overall helps this moment how to get better at it.
And the question is, even how do we go from being high school level readers and writers to college,
then really decent writers?
The question is and we have a similar effect going on here.
We have the talking footage here.
We go into this cutaway shot.
I want to make this a little bit bigger.
And so if we solo, we got this, OK?
And you can see I also raise up the decibel range.
So it it kind of leads in to the next sound.
OK.
So and then we have our second sound, the closing of the book.
And if I solo this, we've got the swoosh, a different swoosh.
And you can see what I did here is I use the same exact to swooshes, but this one and we learned this
early in the course as well, is that a hundred and sixty percent speed.
And this one is at 200 percent speed.
So same exact sound effect with the different speed.
And here's the difference in the sound compared to.
OK, so that kind of hack we also discussed and what this swooshed does is it allows for the music to
cut out.
Well, in a way that doesn't sound abrupt, it sounds purposeful.
Only Prisonaires.
The question is, so if I were to take away the swoosh, OK, I'm going to mute it and now listen to
the soundtrack and it's just going to kind of drop out readers and writers to acknowledge them.
Some writers, the question is actually it actually works OK, still, because we have what's called
this would be a hit sound, this part of the book closing the question.
So that makes the end of the sound work.
Right.
But if we actually muted that as well and just had the audio and the music, here's what it would sound
like.
Its level leaders and writers to college, then some writers.
The question is actually so there's a lot missing there.
It doesn't quite have the juice that it does with these different audio layers.
So let's get one more example in this video lesson and then we'll move on to the next interesting part
of this edit.
Lee, how can we see stories?
The question is actually, how can we see stories in a more accurate way?
I'm getting better at reading requires seeing the written word differently.
What?
OK, so more on the audio side.
We have a very subtle, much longer swoosh.
And as you can see, the swooshes are big when you have music dropping in, music coming in, cutaways
that are really quick.
The show just really helps to guide the audience and give that final polish on the edit.
All professional editors use this technique.
Now we have this really subtle swoosh leading into our track accurate way.
And you can see that when we just see the title come up and the audio from the music is boosted at its
highest.
Why are we doing that?
Because in the other circumstances, when there's speaking and the music track, the speaking should
always be the loudest and clearest and at the forefront.
It's the primary sound.
The audio is there backing up the speaking, and it's quieter in the background.
But when she delivered her line, here we go to the title screen of the video.
There's no speaking.
Then we bring up our audio, our music layer to be the primary sound.
And there's no backing sound there in the background.
So it sounds like this more accurate way.
And there's a fullness to the sound.
And then it, as you can see, goes down when her speaking comes in.
Getting better at reading requires.
That means that her audio takes primary space for the viewer to be listening to.
Again, if I were to take out this really simple boost in our audio.
You're going to see.
That we're going to lose the fullness of our audio track in this specific moment.
See stories in a more accurate way.
Getting better.
So the audio doesn't really quite have enough push in that moment when it's just the music and it doesn't
really give a fullness and an excitement when we're seeing the title card come up.
So that's another point that in the first 20 seconds of this edit, we've got a lot of complexity going
on audio wise and visual wise.
But I really think that's going to help deconstruct a little bit those little specific techniques.